[Term Entry] Python pillow .resize() (#4635)
Codecademy/docs: content/pillow/concepts/image/terms/resize/resize.md

  - 'paths/data-science-foundations'
---

The **.resize()** method is part of the **Pillow** library in Python, and it's used to change the size of an image. Pillow supports image formats such as JPEG, PNG, GIF, TIFF, WebP, and can be installed on a local PC using **pip**.

## Syntax

```pseudo
Image.resize(size, resample=None, box=None, reducing_gap=None)
```

| Parameter Name | Data Type   | Usage                                                     |
| -------------- | ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `size`         | tuple       | Decides the resize dimentions.                            |
| `resample`     | int         | Specifies the resampling filter to be used when resizing. |
| `box`          | tuple, None | A 4-tuple defining the region of the image to resize.     |
| `reducing_gap` | float, None | Used for large scale reduction to help preserve quality.  |

- resample filters available
  - Image.Resampling.NEAREST or Image.NEAREST
  - Image.Resampling.BOX
  - Image.Resampling.BILINEAR or Image.BILINEAR
  - Image.Resampling.HAMMING
  - Image.Resampling.BICUBIC or Image.BICUBIC
  - Image.Resampling.LANCZOS or Image.LANCZOS

> Returns an **image** **object**.

Reviewer: For the parameters description, please use the following format:

- `size`: Parameter description
- `resample`: Parameter description
- `box`: Parameter description
- `reducing_gap`: Parameter description

You can avoid giving the details of the resample filters for this entry. Only the parameters description should be given.

## Example 1

> `.resize()` takes pixels as arguments directly in the first parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates the use of  the `.resize()` method to change the size of the image:
```

```py
from PIL import Image

# Original image is 2000x2000 pixels.
img = Image.open('image_path.jpg')

# Will resize the image to 1000x1000 pixels.

> img_resized = img.resized((1000, 1000))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
img_resized = img.resize((1000, 1000))
```

# Will open the image.
img_resized.show()

print(img_resized.height, img_resized.width)

> ```

Reviewer: For this example, make use of an image to also show the resized image in the output. Keep the Image used and the Output image under the "Media" folder in the docs.

```shell
4000 4000
```

## Example 3

This example demonstrates the use of `.resize()` taking all four available arguments.

`size` is set to `(2000, 2000)`.

`resample` although optional, `Resampling.LANCZOS` is used here, which offers the highest quality when resizing.

`box` specified as `(1000, 1000, 2000, 2000)`, this parameter defines the area of the image to be resized, detailing the placement order as `LEFT`, `UPPER`, `RIGHT`, and `LOWER`.

`reducing_gap` this optimization parameter accepts a `float`. Primarily used for larage size reductions to minimize quality loss, setting `reducing_gap` to `2.0` indicates that the image size is reduced by half at each step of the reduction process.

```py
from PIL import Image

# Original image is 2000x2000 pixels.
img = Image.open('image_path.jpg')

# Will resize the image is to 1000x1000 pixels.
img_resized = img.resized((1000, 1000), Image.Resampling.LANCZOS, box=(1000, 1000, 2000, 2000), reducing_gap=2.0)

# Will open the image.
img_resized.show()

print(img_resized.height, img_resized.width)
```

The output will show the new dimensions of the image in pixels.

```shell
1000 1000

> ```

Reviewer: Just one example is to be added, the other two can be removed.

---
Title: '.resize()'

> Description: 'The .resize() method is part of the Image class in the Pillow library (PIL Fork) in Python, and it is used to change the size of an image.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Changes the size of an image to a specified size.'
```

Subjects:

>   - 'Data Science'
>   - 'Web Design'
>   - 'Web Development'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Web Design'
  - 'Web Development'
```

Tags:
  - 'Computer Vision'
  - 'Images'
  - 'Pillow'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
  - 'paths/data-science'
  - 'paths/data-science-foundations'
---

In Pillow, the **`.resize()`** method is used to change the size of an image. Pillow is a widely used Python library for image processing and manipulation, supporting formats such as JPEG, PNG, PPM, TIFF, GIF, and BMP It can be easily installed on a local PC using `pip`.

## Syntax

```pseudo
Image.resize(size, resample=None, box=None, reducing_gap=None)
```

| Parameter Name | Description                                               |
| -------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `size`         | Decides the resize dimentions.                            |
| `resample`     | Specifies the resampling filter to be used when resizing. |
| `box`          | A 4-tuple defining the region of the image to resize.     |
| `reducing_gap` | Used for large scale reduction to help preserve quality.  |

> Returns an **image** **object**.

Reviewer: For the parameters description, do not add a table, please use the following format:

- size: Parameter description
- resample: Parameter description
- box: Parameter description
- reducing_gap: Parameter description
